TITLE: 25 Underappreciated Modern Foreign Language Films
SOURCE: Den of Geek
GENRE: Foreign/International
URL: https://www.denofgeek.com/movies/25-underappreciated-modern-foreign-language-films/

I Saw the Devil (Korea, 2010)
This is the tale of revenge, murder, and how the lines between good and evil can blur so much you can no longer tell where one begins and the other ends, except that they both end in shocking violence. Master director Kim Jee-woon crafted this stunningly executed tale of a psychopathic killer with no morals, who is relentlessly tracked by a cop with a personal vendetta and no desire to see justice done by the letter of the law. I Saw the Devil turns revenge films inside out, and pushes the traditional cops and criminals genre into incredible new territory. It's a hard and brutal watch, but the violence always informs and is never simply to titillate.

Incendies (Canada, 2010)
Described by more than one critic as a masterpiece, this offering from Quebecois cinema is fully deserving of the praise. Told partly in flashbacks, Incendies traces the life of Nawal Marwan, an immigrant to Canada, who dies of a stroke leaving behind the mystery of her past. Her twin children travel to the Middle East to unravel her secrets, while the audience discovers the truth about how it is to survive in a country wracked by civil war. Incendies is a film which will stay with you long after the end credits, as secret adoptions, assassinations, and brutal prison regimes all play their part.

Tell No One (France, 2006)
Years after a successful doctor's wife is murdered, he receives an email from her, kick-starting an unstoppable chain of events that will leave the viewer bewildered and breathless. Based on an American novel by Harlan Coben, this is the perfect example of how to not only craft a brilliant and tense mystery thriller, but also adapt and improve upon an already brilliant book. Once Dr Alexandre Beck is strongly implicated in a double homicide of which he has no knowledge, the pace never relents, and the mystery of his wife's murder only deepens. It's engrossing, twisting, and ultimately incredibly satisfying.

Dead Snow (Norway, 2009)
As endless computer game modes have shown, who doesn't love zombie Nazis? A mix of high-camp, every horror beat you can imagine, and a ludicrous amount of blood and gore, Dead Snow is nothing new, but that doesn't stop it being a joyfully chaotic and often quite scary horror film, one which sadly is never much regarded beyond its premise. For those who take the time to watch it, you'll be rewarded with a love letter to old school horror special effects, great action scenes, and some excellent kills.

Soul Boy (Kenya, 2010)
A perfect example of an engaging, inventive film which could have only been produced abroad, Soul Boy tells the story of a young slum boy from Nairobi and his quest to restore his father's stolen soul. Produced, directed, and starring first time filmmakers from the same Kibera slum it is set in, the film came about under the mentorship of German director Tom Tykwer as a way of giving underprivileged Kenyans the skills to make cinema. It taps into many Kenyan myths but does so in a way that is incredibly inclusive for a wider audience.

Cargo (Switzerland, 2009)
There aren't many Swiss sci-fi films, so that alone should make this sadly underrated 2009 effort worthy of further investigation. You'll discover a surprisingly thoughtful space thriller. Set in a future where Earth is abandoned, with the rich living on a new planet and the rest in orbiting space stations, Cargo follows the journey of Dr. Laura Portmann, who is making the eight year journey to Rhea to meet her sister. What she finds instead is a terrorist threat, unexplained mysteries, and an apparent stowaway on board. With hints of Event Horizon about it, Cargo poses intriguing questions about what all that time in space will do to us.

Rare Exports: A Christmas Tale (Finland, 2010)
A pretty bat-shit mental Finnish folk tale, Rare Exports harks back to the darker roots of St Nick, and works as both a re-imagination and clever deconstruction of the Santa Claus myth. A dark horror fantasy held together by a well played father-son dynamic, Rare Exports is just the sort of Christmas film we should all be enjoying. It's destined to be a future cult classic, featuring a killer monster Santa.

Dogtooth (Greece, 2009)
Perverse, bewitching and challenging, Dogtooth is not for the faint of heart. Telling the story of a mother and father who raise their three children behind closed walls, teaching them to believe in a fantasy world of their devising, it is a film which both comments on and revels in some truly disturbing behaviour. Dogtooth tackles a varied and interesting number of topics, yet all of it is shot with such simplicity that you quickly lose yourself in the film, engrossed at all the weirdness.

A Separation (Iran, 2011)
An Oscar win and numerous other critical notices haven't been enough to make this register on most people's film radars, which is a huge shame, as A Separation may just be a contender for film of the decade. It follows the heartbreaking story of a married couple who after 14 years decide to divorce; wife Simin no longer wants to remain in Iran, while husband Nader wants to stay and care for his Alzheimer-suffering father. What follows is a fraught and compelling study of family conflict, all wrapped in a mystery too. Never has a film said so much with so little.

Persepolis (France, 2007)
Based on Marjane Satrapi's graphic novel of the same name, Persepolis is perhaps the most literal and perfect adaptation of source material to screen there has ever been. Using the same simple yet incredibly effective animation style as the comic, the film charts the semi-autobiographical story of a young Satrapi as she longs to take part in a revolution against the corrupt Shah of Iran, only to watch in horror as the uprising is taken over by Islamic fundamentalists. It's a shocking tale, but often hilarious and full of the innocence of youth.