TITLE: 8 Most Underrated Folk Horror Movies of All Time
SOURCE: Collider
GENRE: Horror
URL: https://collider.com/most-underrated-folk-horror-movies-of-all-time-ranked/

A relatively modern genre derived from Gothic horror , folk horror is one of the most popular subgenres of horror cinema in the world today. Moody, atmospheric stories inspired by folk beliefs and rural superstitions, these films have become a staple of the horror landscape. But even though the genre is quite beloved by horror fans, there are a lot of great folk horror movies that are still sadly underrated.
Many of these are international films that have earned acclaim within their native countries but haven’t made it into the global discourse yet. Others are under-the-radar releases that made a mark on dedicated genre fans but haven’t received as much attention as they deserve from the wider public. Whatever the reasons for their obscurity, one thing they all share is the fact that they’re truly terrifying films that ought to be given a lot more attention. Read on to discover our ranked selection of the most underrated folk horror movies, including both little-known classics and more modern films.
An Indian Hindi-language period horror drama, Bulbbul stars Tripti Dimri as the titular character, a child bride in 1880s Bengal who is married to a wealthy lord and grows close to his youngest brother, Satya ( Avinash Tiwary ). Decades later, when Satya returns home from London, he meets a grown-up Bulbbul, who is now the matriarch of the family, but he becomes suspicious when he learns that the village has been plagued by a series of killings believed to be the work of a witch. The movie also features Paoli Dam , Rahul Bose , and Parambrata Chattopadhyay in key roles.
Released on Netflix in June 2020, Bulbbul has earned highly favorable reviews from critics and audiences, receiving praise for its performances and story. A well-crafted work of Gothic horror with an underlying feminist message, the film combines the traditional stylings of the Gothic genre with elements of Indian folk horror, creating a gripping and visually stunning narrative that makes for a thoroughly enjoyable experience. While the film isn’t quite as popular as it ought to be, both in India and the world at large, it is a thrilling watch that’s arguably one of the best horror films made in the country in recent years.
Set on a remote Welsh island at the beginning of the 20th century, Apostle is a period folk horror film starring Dan Stevens as Thomas Richardson, a former missionary whose sister has been kidnapped by the island’s mysterious cultist residents. After infiltrating the island by posing as a convert, Thomas meets the cult's founders and learns more about their gruesome practices, discovering an ancient, enigmatic power tied to the land itself. Besides Stevens, the movie also features Michael Sheen , Mark Lewis Jones , Paul Higgins , Lucy Boynton , Elen Rhys , and more in supporting roles.
Apostle premiered at the 2018 Fantastic Fest, receiving largely positive reviews, and was subsequently released on Netflix later the same year. A Wicker Man -style cult horror film with a slow-burn narrative and an explosive final act, the movie is a fascinating watch with stellar performances, well-choreographed action, a gripping atmosphere, and great cinematography. The film has earned several accolades, including four nominations for BAFTA Cymru awards, but it’s quite underwatched by mainstream audiences.
Set in a remote Korean village, The Wailing is a South Korean horror film that follows a series of strange killings that begin with the arrival of a mysterious Japanese man and the outbreak of a puzzling illness. The movie follows Officer Jong-goo ( Kwak Do-won ) as he tries to find the cause of these strange phenomena, a situation that grows exponentially desperate when his own daughter becomes one of the victims. The film also features Hwang Jung-min , Chun Woo-hee , Jun Kunimura , and more in supporting roles.
First released in South Korea in May 2016, The Wailing was screened out of competition at the Cannes Film Festival, receiving near-universal critical acclaim and drawing international attention. The film takes viewers through a complex supernatural mystery, with captivating atmosphere and unpredictable storytelling that makes it a truly immersive (and terrifying) experience. Though it isn’t quite as widely appreciated as it ought to be, the film has received numerous accolades, including the prestigious Baeksang Arts Award for Best Film.
The feature directorial debut of director and co-writer Valdimar Jóhannsson , Lamb is a folk horror film starring Noomi Rapace and Hilmir Snær Guðnason as a rural Icelandic couple. When one of their sheep mysteriously gives birth to a half-human hybrid, they adopt the infant and name her after their deceased daughter, growing close to the strange child while, unknown to them, a dark presence draws near. Besides its two leads, the film also features Björn Hlynur Haraldsson , Ingvar Eggert Sigurðsson , and Lára Björk Hall .
Lamb premiered at the 2021 Cannes Film Festival in the Un Certain Regard section, receiving highly positive reviews from critics. A unique and imaginative horror drama with a compelling emotional narrative, the film has been praised for its writing, direction, and performances, as well as its beautiful cinematography. The movie was chosen as Iceland’s submission for the Best International Feature Film at the Academy Awards, but it was not ultimately nominated.
Set in 1840s California, Ravenous is a period horror film that plays with the Native American myth of the Wendigo curse. The movie stars Guy Pearce as a US Army soldier during the Mexican-American War who is sent to a remote military outpost, where the arrival of a stranger kicks off a series of horrifying events. The film also features Robert Carlyle , Jeffrey Jones , and David Arquette in key roles.
Ravenous was not a box office success in its day, nor did it receive a particularly good critical reception, but it has become a cult film in the years since its release. A terrifying work of folk horror that presents a gruesome allegory of Western expansionism, the film features some gripping performances and a suspenseful, layered plot. While its plot is not without flaws, the film deserves a lot more credit for its atmospheric narrative and genuinely scary story.
A 2019 supernatural horror film, Sator revolves around the mysterious past of a family plagued by generations of insanity. Gabriel Nicholson stars as Adam, the youngest member of the family, who lives in an isolated cabin and searches for evidence of the titular entity, slowly falling into the power of an enigmatic evil. Besides Nicholson, the film also features Michael Daniel , Rachel Johnson , Aurora Lowe , and June Peterson in significant roles.
A super under-the-radar indie horror film produced on a low budget, Sator was very well-received by critics, but it isn’t that well-known outside of genre circles. A subtle, eerie movie with a gripping narrative, the film doesn’t lean into overt gore or scares, but its careful approach to horror makes it all the more memorable and terrifying. The movie is minimalistic yet highly effective, drawing maximum creepiness out of its cryptic and unsettling plot without ever really revealing who or what is behind the dark events that unfold in its story.

2 ‘Hagazussa: A Heathen's Curse’ (2017)
Written and directed by Lukas Feigelfeld in his feature directorial debut, Hagazussa: A Heathen's Curse is a German-Austrian period folk horror thriller. Starring Aleksandra Cwen , the film follows a reclusive goat-herder who lives a secluded life in a remote part of the Alps in the 15th century as the trauma of her mother’s violent death and the town’s ever-present harassment pushes her into darkness and insanity. Besides Cwen, the movie also stars Claudia Martini , Tanja Petrovsky , Haymon Maria Buttinger , and more in key roles.
Hagazussa: A Heathen's Curse premiered at the 2017 Fantastic Fest, where it was quite positively received by critics. An atmospheric and unsettling story, the film is a surreal experience that unfolds the psychological journey of a woman’s descent into madness, exploring how paranoia and superstition can turn regular, everyday people into monsters. Though it hasn’t received much mainstream attention, the movie is easily one of the most fascinating folk horror films of the 2010s , a cinematic nightmare that will haunt you long after the credits roll.
Loosely inspired by a real-life case of mass hysteria, Incantation is a Taiwanese found-footage film that stars Tsai Hsuan-yen as Li Ronan, a troubled mother who is desperately trying to save her young daughter. Presented through a non-linear narrative, the movie revolves around a malevolent ancestral deity worshipped by an isolated mountain religion whose terrible curse is unleashed upon the world when Li Ronan and her friends inadvertently break a religious taboo. Huang Sin-ting , Kao Ying-hsuan , Sean Lin , and more appear in supporting roles.
Though it isn’t that well-known internationally, Incantation was a massive success in Taiwan, earning critical acclaim and becoming the country’s highest-grossing film of 2022 (and highest-grossing horror film of all time). Combining the familiar found footage format with Chinese mysticism and a carefully designed fictional religious system, the movie is an ambitious and mind-bending production that skillfully draws viewers into its chilling story and central curse. A must-watch for fans of Asian folk horror, it’s arguably one of the greatest horror films of recent years, and possibly even of all time.
