TITLE: The 13 Best Underrated Horror Movies That Time Forgot
SOURCE: Collider
GENRE: Horror
URL: https://collider.com/underrated-horror-movies-time-forgot/

I Walked with a Zombie (1943)
Jacques Tourneur's I Walked with a Zombie certainly has that titular line, but the resulting movie is not really about zombies, it's about guilt from colonialism. The "zombie" is a sleepwalking woman on an island that practices voodoo; the family of colonialists believe she's been put under a spell by the natives. The horror tropes are shadows, drums, and pounding flames surrounding a lengthy seance, and Tourneur is delicate with the voodoo filming, not making the natives out to be monsters but choosing long respectful takes of the ceremony. The film has more in common with gothic romance than anything RKO would have thought they commissioned. It's pure art.

I Drink Your Blood (1970)
I Drink Your Blood is peak grindhouse; pure exploitation designed to titillate, frighten, and amuse with little regard for production value. That said, it's purely, blissfully amusing from start to finish and a bit more cleverly plotted than you might expect. It's an acid trip freakout of a film about a rabies-infected cult of devil-worshipping hippies. When the Satan-loving ne'er-do-wells roll into town, they brutalize a young woman, incurring the wrath of her grandfather, who feeds them a batch of rabies-laced meat pies. From there it becomes a trippy, thoughtless zombie movie, openly riffing on Night of the Living Dead. Fair warning: the film features some unfortunate animal cruelty.

Wake in Fright (1971)
Wake in Fright is a nightmare: being surrounded by a horde of degenerate men who drink, gamble, fight, dismiss women, and shoot animals for sport, with no ability to leave them behind. It's under-seen because it includes footage from an actual kangaroo hunt. It follows a schoolteacher (Gary Bond) who takes a rural post in Australia and immediately regrets it. After gambling away all his earnings, he shacks up with the alpha male (Donald Pleasence) for a weekend of non-stop boozing and fighting. More frightening than Deliverance because these outback men are more identifiable. Director Ted Kotcheff made his debut here; it is his masterpiece of identifiable and horrific masculinity.

Daughters of Darkness (1971)
With nudity and sexual proclivity loosened across various censor boards, the vampire film finally got to embrace the eroticism of the genre in the 1970s. Belgium's Daughters of Darkness is the most artful and moody of the spicy lot. There's a mysterious man on a bicycle and an ornate Transylvanian hotel where a Countess (Delphine Seyrig) and her assistant lament that their world hardly has any remaining virgins. Enter a newlywed couple who've already fallen out of love. Harry Kumel's film is grindhouse fare for those who prefer a touch of class, and Seyrig provides one of the classiest femme vampires.

Blood and Lace (1971)
Seven years prior to Halloween, Blood and Lace featured the first home invasion killer POV during a murder. The hammer murder of a prostitute at the beginning sends her teenage daughter (Melody Patterson) to an oppressive orphanage run by the sadistic Gloria Grahame, who lives off the state contract given for each orphan and works the children extra hard. Every man in Blood and Lace is oozing filth, leading to a few sick plot twists. Is this movie great? Nope. But for cheap thrills and grindhouse fans, it's certainly very fun. It perfectly straddles the 60s exploitation flicks of yore with one foot in the future 70s horror nasties.

The Asphyx (1972)
The Asphyx is slow-burn Victorian horror, which usually falls well outside the range of most interests, but what it demands in patience, it makes up for in a purely original story that somehow hasn't been replicated since. The title refers to an ancient creature that comes to claim your soul at the moment of death, and the film centers around a high society doctor who begins experimenting with the creature in a dangerous quest for immortality. The creature design is unique and chilling, but the best moments come when the scientists debate the meaning of the creature's existence. It's a film that creeps up on you.

Deathdream (1974)
Deathdream (aka Dead of Night) is one of the first narrative films to directly address the Vietnam War. A soldier (Richard Backus) returns home from Vietnam after his parents had already received a letter stating he was killed in combat. Bob Clark's second feature labels the man a zombie, but he returns addicted to blood and kills animals and locals so he can inject blood into his veins and keep living. Deathdream uses the horrific symbol of intravenous addiction to approach the issues of an American soldier returning home, a haunting allusion to the veteran drug-abuse problems the country turned away from after Vietnam.

Tourist Trap (1979)
Alternately goofy as hell and downright creepy, Tourist Trap is one of the more bizarre slasher films to come out of the pre-80s onslaught, somehow managing to be unique despite borrowing heavily from the horror hits that preceded it. The film follows a group of youths who get stranded at a remote gas station and museum filled with grotesque mannequins, run by a creepy, murderous man who stalks them down one by one. Tourist Trap sets aside gore in favor of building creepy ambiance, and director David Schmoeller creates a cacophonous mounting dread paid off with unnerving imagery, especially when the mannequins come to life.

Fascination (1979)
What if Eric Rohmer made a bisexual vampire movie? It'd be an immoral tale such as Fascination. Of all the lesbian and bisexual vampire movies of the 70s, this is the one that puts women in the most control over their sex and their prey. It's not just a few women cooped up in a mansion, it's a whole underground society. Fascination opens with a robbery filmed like grown ups playing the same shootout games they did as kids. If Jess Franco is a little too tongue in cheek and psychedelic for you, then give director Jean Rollin a try, starting with Fascination.

Bloody Moon (1981)
Jess Franco is most famous for Vampyros Lesbos, but Bloody Moon is his most straightforward horror film. There's a killer on the loose at a Spanish schoolhouse, five years after a rape and murder at a party. The script is pretty ludicrous and the acting is pretty bad, but it never aims much higher than trashy kills and pearl-clutching plot mentions, which is Franco's sweet spot. It's the perfect midnight movie for fans of trashy slashers.