TITLE: The 15 Most Underrated Sci-Fi Movies of the Last Decade
SOURCE: Collider
GENRE: Sci-Fi
URL: https://collider.com/best-underrated-sci-fi-movies-of-the-decade/

After Yang (2022)
After Yang flew under the radar as a more thoughtful and metaphysical sci-fi entry. There are no guns or fast cars or post-apocalyptic cities. Instead, we follow a family in mourning after their android Yang malfunctions and effectively dies. A character story more than anything else, we follow Jake (Colin Farrell) as he tries to fix Yang and as a result looks into the mind of the android and discovers how the being viewed him and his family. Slow, quiet, and dreamy at times, there is much to love about After Yang.

The Matrix Resurrections (2021)
For some, the newest installment into The Matrix franchise was a dud, but after 18 years away from Neo (Keanu Reeves) and Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss), it felt good to be back. Although the sequel only featured one of the Wachowski sisters behind the camera, Lana Wachowski, The Matrix Resurrections had all the hallmarks of a powerful Matrix story. It blended the philosophical with the action, and it reinforced the long-held theory that Neo and Trinity are The One together rather than just Neo alone.

Dredd (2012)
Although this comic-turned-movie has now gained cult status and is much beloved from those who enjoy a bit of the ultra violence, when Dredd first came out in 2012, the movie did not do well in the box office at all; however, critical and audience reactions remained positive. From Karl Urban's near-permanent frown underneath his helmet to Lena Headey's scarred and deadly drug kingpin Ma-Ma, the movie is drenched in aesthetic indulgence and post-apocalyptic perfection. With a sequel unlikely to happen given the financial failure, there's still a contingency of fans who wouldn't mind a visit back to Mega-City One.

Predestination (2014)
Predestination is a complicated and compelling drama hiding out in a twisty, time travel thriller. Written and directed by Peter and Michael Spierig, based on Robert A. Heinlein's 1959 short story "All You Zombies," this little-seen indie stars Ethan Hawke as a time-traveling agent struggling to stop a bomber in 1970s New York. But the bomber's identity, and that of a bartender with a mysterious past, threatens to unravel reality as the movie rockets to one hell of a twist ending. The result is a complex tale about how to define one's existence when they can exist across multiple timelines and places.

Coherence (2013)
Shot in five days, with no script and very little budget, Coherence is Ray Bradbury by way of Agatha Christie. A confident feature film debut from director James Ward Byrkit, Coherence centers on a group of friends who have their dinner party upended when a comet streaks across the night sky and drags a tear through reality in its wake. Multiple alternate realities open themselves to the main characters, realities populated with alternate versions of themselves. As a result, this friend group unravels into enemies as Byrkit twists the screws on a thought-provoking sci-fi tale that needs to be seen at least twice to fully appreciate.

Colossal (2016)
From director Nacho Vigalondo, Colossal asks "what if a Godzilla-sized monster brawl was a projection of our own emotional issues and insecurities?" This premise is what alcoholic Gloria (Anne Hathaway) finds herself in the middle of, as her struggles literally manifest themselves in the form of a monster in South Korea that terrorizes people. This big creative swing requires significant buy-in from the audience, which Vigalondo makes surprisingly easy thanks to the way he grounds the ridiculous nature of his conceit in a very relatable world. Colossal doubles down on delivering a small-scale, character-first genre film that only gets better with repeat viewings.

Snowpiercer (2013)
Gritty, violent and more timely than ever, Snowpiercer, from Oscar-winning director Bong Joon Ho (Parasite), is a post-apocalyptic thriller unlike any other. Based on a French graphic novel, Snowpiercer takes place in a frightening not-too-distant future where mankind's Hail Mary play to derail global warming fails and confines a caste system of humanity aboard the titular train. Chris Evans and Tilda Swinton headline an impressive and game ensemble cast as Director Bong offers a quirky and unflinching view of humanity's hubris. It's both an intellectual and physical battle between the "scum" and the "elites."

Iron Man 3 (2013)
Iron Man 3 tends to get a bad rap, in large part because of its unusual handling of classic Marvel villain the Mandarin. The subversive take and the Marvel movie's commitment in forcing Tony to find who he is outside his suit give it lasting appeal. Writer-director Shane Black's brand of humor and approach to character-first action scenes, which have an extra sci-fi tinge here, give an edge to Robert Downey Jr.'s Tony Stark. The film explores the PTSD Tony suffered after the Battle of New York.

Edge of Tomorrow (2014)
Edge of Tomorrow is one of the most underrated big studio releases ever made. Tom Cruise's fun, action-packed time-loop thriller made more of a dent on home video than in theaters. But this clever spin on both the alien invasion and time-travel genres is one of those rare studio films that stays with you long after the credits roll. Come for the dizzying Normandy Beach-style attack that opens the film, stay for Cruise's all-in performance that laughs with but never at the movie's sci-fi premise.

About Time (2013)
A box office disappointment at the time of its release, Richard Curtis' About Time has found an impressive second life on streaming and home video. It's a time travel story unlike any other, one that mixes timey-wimey sci-fi with the rom-com sensibilities Curtis is best known for. Domhnall Gleeson plays the son of a time traveller (Bill Nighy) who struggles to make a romance work with his crush, played by Rachel McAdams. When he hits bumps, he goes back in time to "fix" it, but the one thing he can't cheat is death. This bittersweet twist is heartbreaking, thanks to Curtis' deft handling of the intimate consequences of breaking the laws of physics.
